The Project Gutenberg eBook, The Book of Friendship, by Reginald Wright
Kauffman


This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most
other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions 
whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms of
the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at 
www.gutenberg.org.  If you are not located in the United States, you'll have
to check the laws of the country where you are located before using this ebook.




Title: The Book of Friendship
       A Little Manual of Comradeship


Author: Reginald Wright Kauffman



Release Date: June 27, 2018  [eBook #57409]

Language: English

Character set encoding: UTF-8


***START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE BOOK OF FRIENDSHIP***


E-text prepared by Turgut Dincer, Wayne hammond, and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team (http://www.pgdp.net) from page images
generously made available by Internet Archive (https://archive.org)



Note: Project Gutenberg also has an HTML version of this
      file which includes the original illustration.
      See 57409-h.htm or 57409-h.zip:
      (http://www.gutenberg.org/files/57409/57409-h/57409-h.htm)
      or
      (http://www.gutenberg.org/files/57409/57409-h.zip)


      Images of the original pages are available through
      Internet Archive. See
      https://archive.org/details/bookoffriendship00kauf


Transcriber’s note:

      Text enclosed by underscores is in italics (_italics_).

      Text enclosed by pound signs is widely spaced (#widely spaced#).





[Illustration]


THE BOOK OF FRIENDSHIP

A Little Manual of Comradeship


[Decoration]


by

REGINALD WRIGHT KAUFFMAN






Philadelphia
Henry Altemus Company

Copyright, 1909, by
Howard E. Altemus.




#THE BOOK OF
FRIENDSHIP#




THE BOOK OF
FRIENDSHIP


When I have attempted to join myself to others by services, it proved
an intellectual trick,--no more. They eat your service like apples, and
leave you out. But love them, and they feel you, and delight in you all
the time.

  --Emerson.

    So, if I live or die to serve my friend,
    ’Tis for my love,--’tis for my friend alone,
    And not for any rate that friendship bears
    In heaven or on earth.

    --George Eliot

Old friends are the only ones whose hold is upon our inmost being;
others but half replace them.

  --Voltaire

True friends appear less mov’d than counterfeit.

  --Horace

It is sublime to feel and say of another, I need never meet, or speak,
or write to him; we need not reënforce ourselves, or send tokens of
remembrance; I rely on him as on myself; if he did thus and thus, I
know it was right.

  --Emerson

A true Friendship is as wise as it is tender. The parties to it yield
implicitly to the guidance of their love, and know no other law but
kindness.

  --Henry D. Thoreau

Friendship is a vase, which, when it is flawed by heat or violence or
accident, may as well be broken at once; it can never be trusted after.
The more graceful and ornamental it was, the more clearly do we discern
the hopelessness of restoring it to its former state. Coarse stones, if
they are fractured, may be cemented again; precious stones never.

  --Landor

Friendship’s the wine of life.

  --Young

    Give me the avow’d, the erect, the manly foe;
    Bold I can meet--perhaps may turn his blow;
    But of all plagues, good Heaven, thy wrath can send,
    Save, save, oh! save me from the candid friend.

    --George Canning

How often we find ourselves turning our backs on our actual Friends,
that we may go and meet their ideal cousins.

  --Henry D. Thoreau

Common friendships will admit of division; one may love the beauty of
this, the good humor of that person, the liberality of a third, the
paternal affection of a fourth, the fraternal love of a fifth, and so
on. But this friendship that possesses the whole soul, and there rules
and sways with an absolute sovereignty, can admit of no rival.

  --Montaigne

Friendship is a sheltering tree.

  --Coleridge

We love everything on our own account; we even follow our own taste and
inclination when we prefer our friends to ourselves; and yet it is this
preference that alone constitutes true and perfect friendship.

  --La Rochefoucauld

Friendships begin with liking or gratitude.

  --George Eliot

In friendship I early was taught to believe.

  --Byron

    In all thy humors, whether grave or mellow
    Thou’rt such a touchy, testy, pleasant fellow,
    Hast so much wit and mirth and spleen about thee,
    That there’s no living with thee, or without thee.

    --Addison

    Friendship of itself a holy tie,
    Is made more sacred by adversity.

    --Dryden

Love and friendship exclude one another.

  --La Bruyère

Friendship is a severe sentiment, solidly seated, since it rests
upon all that is highest in us, the purely intellectual part of us.
What happiness to be able to say all that one feels to someone who
comprehends one to the very end and not only up to a certain point,
to someone who completes one’s thought with the same word that was on
one’s lips, someone the reply of whom starts from one a torrent of
conceptions, a flood of ideas!

  --Pierre Loti

    The man that hails you Tom or Jack,
    And proves by thumps upon your back
    How he esteems your merit,
    Is such a friend that one had need
    Be very much his friend indeed
    To pardon or to bear it.

    --Cowper

Judge before friendship, then confide till death.

  --Young

Have no friend not equal to yourself.

  --Confucius

Separate thyself from thine enemies, and take heed of thy friends. A
faithful friend is a strong defence; and he that hath found such an
one hath found a treasure. Nothing doth countervail a faithful friend,
and his excellency is invaluable. A faithful friend is the medicine of
life; and they that fear the Lord shall find him.

  --The Book of Ecclesiasticus

Thou may’st be sure that he that will, in private, tell thee of thy
faults, is thy friend, for he adventures thy dislike, and doth hazard
thy hatred; there are few men that can endure it, every man for the
most part delighting in self-praise, which is one of the most universal
follies that bewitcheth mankind.

  --Sir Walter Raleigh

Once let friendship be given that is born of God, nor time nor
circumstance can change it to a lessening; it must be mutual growth,
increasing trust, widening faith, enduring patience, forgiving love,
unselfish ambition, and an affection built before the Throne, which
will bear the test of time and trial.

  --Allan Throckmorton

Friendship is a field which one sows.

  --Restif de la Brétonne

A man that is fit to make a friend of must have conduct to manage the
engagement, and resolution to maintain it. He must use freedom without
roughness, and oblige without design. Cowardice will betray friendship,
and covetousness will starve it. Folly will be nauseous, passion is apt
to ruffle, and pride will fly out into contumely and neglect.

  --Jeremy Collier

Some look to friendship for absolute exemption from criticism, and for
a mutual admiration without limit or conditions. Others mistake it for
the right of excessive criticism, in season and out of season.

  --John Morley

Of what use is the friendliest disposition even, if there are no hours
given to Friendship, if it is forever postponed to unimportant duties
and relations?

  --Henry D. Thoreau

What is loving--that verb (_amare_) wherefrom the very name of
friendship (_amicitia_) is derived--but wishing one to enjoy the best
possible good fortune, even if none of it accrues to one’s self?

  --Cicero

Even the utmost good-will and harmony and practical kindness are not
sufficient for Friendship, for Friends do not live in harmony merely,
as some say, but in melody.

  --Henry D. Thoreau

Think of the importance of Friendship in the education of men. It will
make a man honest; it will make him a hero; it will make him a saint.
It is the state of the just dealing with the just, the magnanimous with
the magnanimous, the sincere with the sincere, man with man.

  --Henry D. Thoreau

The admirer is never stupid in the eyes of the admired.

  --Helvetius

One of the surest evidences of friendship that one individual can
display to another is telling him gently of a fault. If any other can
excel it, it is listening to such a disclosure with gratitude, and
amending the error.

  --Bulwer-Lytton

We never exchange more than three words with a Friend in our lives on
that level to which our thoughts and feelings almost habitually rise.

  --Henry D. Thoreau

If thou wouldst get a friend, prove him first, and be not hasty to
credit him; for some man is a friend for his own occasion, and will
not abide in the day of thy trouble. And there is a friend who, being
turned to enmity and strife, will discover thy reproach. Again, some
friend is a companion at the table, and will not continue in the day of
thine affliction.

  --The Book of Ecclesiasticus

Friendship is a pact where one balances faults and qualities. One can
judge a friend, take account of what is good, neglect what is evil, and
appreciate exactly his value, in abandoning one’s self to an intimate,
profound and charming sympathy.

  --Guy de Maupassant

    Everyone can have a friend
    Who himself knows how to be a friend.

    --Old Saying

We do not wish for Friends to feed and clothe our bodies,--neighbors
are kind enough for that,--but to do the like office to our spirits.
For this few are rich enough, however well disposed they may be.

  --Henry D. Thoreau

Friendship closes its eye, rather than see the moon eclipst; while
malice denies that it is ever at the full.

  --J. C. and A. W. Hare

Son, if the lintels of thy house are lofty, and thy friend be sick, say
not: What shall I send to him? Go thou rather on foot, and see him with
thy eyes; for that is better for him than a thousand talents of gold or
Silver.

  --Arabian Legend

We must love our friends as true amateurs love paintings: they have
their eyes perpetually fixed upon the fine qualities, and see no others.

  --Mme. d’Epinay

Nothing is so difficult as to help a Friend in matters which do not
require the aid of Friendship, but only a cheap and trivial service, if
your Friendship wants the basis of a thorough practical acquaintance.

  --Henry D. Thoreau

    Great souls by instinct to each other turn,
    Demand alliance, and in friendship burn.

    --Addison

    Fast as the rolling seasons bring
      The hour of fate to those we love,
    Each pearl that leaves the broken string
      Is set in Friendship’s crown above.
    As narrower grows the earthly chain,
      The circle widens in the sky;
    These are our treasures that remain,
      But those are stars that beam on high.

    --O. W. Holmes

There is nothing more becoming any wise man, than to make choice
of friends, for by them thou shalt be judged as thou art; let them
therefore be wise and virtuous, and none of those that follow thee for
gain; but make election rather of thy betters, than thy inferiors.

  --Sir Walter Raleigh

True friendship is like sound health: the value of it is seldom known
until it be lost.

  --C. C. Colton

A woman’s friendship borders more closely on love than man’s. Men
affect each other in the reflection of noble or friendly acts; whilst
women ask fewer proofs and more signs and expressions of attachment.

  --Coleridge

Be slow in choosing a friend, slower in changing.

  --Franklin

A true friend to a man is a friend to all his friends.

  --Wycherley

Half a word from your friend says more to you than many phrases, for
you are accustomed to think with him. You comprehend all the sentiments
which animate him, and he knows it. You are two intelligences which add
to and complement each other.

  --Pierre Loti

    Friendship! mysterious cement of the soul!
    Sweet’ner of life! and solder of society!

    --Robert Blair

Friendship is first, Friendship last. But it is equally impossible to
forget our Friends, and to make them answer to our ideal. When they say
farewell, then indeed we begin to keep them company.

  --Henry D. Thoreau

In friendship we see the faults which may be prejudicial to our
friends. In love we see no faults, but those by which we ourselves
suffer.

  --La Bruyère

    Come back! ye friendships long departed!
    That like o’erflowing streamlets started,
    And now are dwindled one by one,
    To stony channels in the sun!
    Come back, ye friends whose lives are ended,
    Come back, with all that light attended,
    Which seemed to darken and decay
    When ye arose and went away.

    --Longfellow

Our friends are generally ready to do everything for us except the
very thing we wish them to do. There is one thing in particular they
are always disposed to give us, and which we are as unwilling to take,
namely, advice.

  --Hazlitt

There is nothing that is meritorious but virtue and friendship, and
indeed friendship itself is only a part of virtue.

  --Pope

There are three friendships which are advantageous, and three which are
injurious. Friendship with the upright; friendship with the sincere,
and friendship with the man of observation: these are advantageous.
Friendship with the man of specious airs; friendship with the
insinuatingly soft, and friendship with the glib of tongue: these are
injurious.

  --Confucius

    A generous friendship no cold medium knows,
    Burns with one love, with one resentment glows;
    One should our interests and our passions be,
    My friend must hate the man that injures me.

    --Homer (Pope’s Tr.)

My friend is that one whom I can associate with my choicest thought.

  --Henry D. Thoreau

Go, humble thyself, and make sure thy friend.

  --The Book of Proverbs

Veritable friends enjoy, in moral order, the perfection of scent that
dogs do; they thus divine the chagrins of their comrades; they see the
causes and concern themselves with them.

  --Balzac

I have loved my friends, as I do virtue, my soul, my God.

  --Sir Thomas Browne

The most certain fortress against evil is that of friendship.

  --Cicero

Charity itself commands us, where we know no ill, to think well of all;
but friendship, that always goes a pitch higher, gives a man a peculiar
right and claim to the good opinion of his friend.

  --Robert South

  Therefore example take by me,
  For friendship parts in poverty.

  --English Ballad

A friend is worth all hazards we can run.

  --Young

Beware, lest thy Friend learn at last to tolerate one frailty of thine,
and so an obstacle be raised to the progress of thy love.

  --Henry D. Thoreau

Nothing is more dangerous than an imprudent friend; better to have to
deal with a prudent enemy.

  --La Fontaine

I hate the prostitution of the name of friendship to signify modish and
worldly alliances.

  --Emerson

Old friends are the great blessings of one’s latter years. Half a word
conveys one’s meaning. They have memory of the same events, and have
the same mode of thinking. I have young relations that grow upon me,
for my nature is affectionate, but can they grow old friends? My age
forbids that. Still less can they grow companions. Is it friendship to
explain half one says? One must relate the history of one’s memory and
ideas; and what is that to the young but old stories?

  --Horace Walpole

What is commonly called Friendship even is only a little more honor
among rogues.

  --Henry D. Thoreau

    The friendships of the world are oft
    Confederacies in vice, or leagues of pleasure;
    Ours has severest virtue for its basis,
    And such a friendship ends not but with life.

    --Addison

There are jilts in friendship as well as in love, and by the behavior
of some men in both, one would almost imagine that they industriously
sought to gain the affections of others with a view only of making the
parties miserable.

  --Henry Fielding

Friendship is evanescent in every man’s experience, and remembered like
heat lightning in past summers.

  --Henry D. Thoreau

Give, and you may keep your friend if you lose your money; lend, and
the chances are that you lose your friend if ever you get back your
money.

  --Bulwer-Lytton

I would that I were worthy to be any man’s Friend.

  --Henry D. Thoreau

There is nothing sweeter than a warm friendship, but continual emotion
embitters.

  --Joseph Reinach

    Dear is my friend--but from my foe, as from
    My friend, comes good; the first what I can do
    Shows, and the second what I should.

    --Schiller

Every friend is to the other a sun, and a sunflower also. He attracts
and follows.

  --Jean Paul Richter

Kindred weaknesses induce friendships as often as kindred virtues.

  --C. N. Bovee

One must shed his blood to serve his friends and to avenge himself upon
his enemies; otherwise he is not worthy of the name of man.

  --Voltaire

Friendship takes place between those who have an affinity for one
another, and is a perfectly natural and inevitable result.

  --Henry D. Thoreau

Talking with a friend is nothing else but thinking aloud.

  --Addison

Mutual comprehension makes for friendship, and militates against love;
for love--like modern society papers--must have a “puzzle column” for
those that take it in.

  --Ellen Thorneycroft Fowler

Whatever the number of a man’s friends, there will be times in his life
when he has one too few.

  --Bulwer-Lytton

The friendship of a great man is a gift of the gods.

  --Voltaire

    Ah! were I sever’d from thy side,
    Where were thy friend, and who my guide?
    Years have not seen, Time shall not see
    The hour that tears my soul from thee.

    --Byron

False friends are like our shadow, keeping close to us while we walk in
the sunshine, but leaving us the instant we cross into the shade.

  --C. N. Bovee

    I have _friends_ in Spirit land,--
    Not shadows in a shadowy band,
    Not _others_ but _themselves_ are they;
    And still I think of them the same
    As when the Master’s summons came.

    --Whittier

Life is to be fortified by many friendships. To love and to be loved is
the greatest happiness of existence.

  --Sydney Smith

    Should auld acquaintance be forgot,
      And never brought to min’?
    Should auld acquaintance be forgot,
      And days o’ auld lang syne?

    --Burns

No man has been able to discover how to give a friendly counsel to any
woman, not even to his wife.

  --Balzac

In friendships, some are worthy, and some are necessary.

  --Jeremy Taylor

You do not know how great is the value of friendship, if you do not
understand how much you give to him to whom you give a friend.

  --Seneca

Faint heart never won true Friend. O my Friend, may it come to pass,
once, that when you are my Friend I may be yours.

  --Henry D. Thoreau

Rare as is true love, true friendship is rarer.

  --La Fontaine

    Ceremony was but devis’d at first
    To set a gloss on faint deeds, hollow welcomes,
    Recanting goodness, sorry ere ’tis shown;
    But where there is true friendship, there needs none.

    --Shakespeare

Friends are companions on a journey, who ought to aid each other to
persevere in the road to a happier life.

  --Pythagoras

Have friends: It is the second existence. Every friend is good and wise
for his friend, and among them all gets well managed.

  --Balthasar Gracian

When our friends are present, we ought to treat them well; and when
they are absent, to speak of them well.

  --Epictetus

To Friendship every burden’s light.

  --John Gay

    All are friends in heaven, all faithful friends,
    And many friendships in the days of Time
    Begun, are lasting here, and growing still.

    --Robert Pollok

A Friend is one who incessantly pays us the compliment of expecting
from us all the virtues, and who can appreciate them in us.

  --Henry D. Thoreau

Friendship is immeasurably better than kindness.

  --Cicero

The friendship that I have conceived will not be impaired by absence,
but it may be no unpleasing circumstance to brighten the chain by a
renewal of the covenant.

  --George Washington

True friendship between man and man is infinite and immortal.

  --Plato

Purchase not friends with gifts; when thou ceasest to give, such will
cease to love.

  --Thomas Fuller

Everything is well, provided one reaches the end of the day, that one
sups and that one sleeps. The rest is “vanity of vanities,” as says
“the other.” But friendship is a veritable thing.

  --Voltaire

    Ah, how good it feels;
    The hand of an old friend!

    --Longfellow

No friend’s a friend till he shall prove a friend.

  --Beaumont and Fletcher

We hate some persons because we do not know them, and we will not
know them because we hate them. The friendships that succeed to such
aversions are usually firm, for those qualities must be sterling that
could not only gain our hearts, but conquer our prejudices.

  --Colton

The amity that wisdom knits not, folly may easily untie.

  --Shakespeare

    O friendship, equal-poised control,
    O heart with kindliest motion warm,
    O sacred essence, other form,
    O solemn ghost, O crowned soul!

    --Tennyson

    Who friendship with a knave hath made
    Is judg’d a partner in the trade.

    --John Gay

Let your friends be the friends of your deliberate choice.

  --Balthasar Gracian

Do not have evil-doers for friends; do not have low people for friends;
have virtuous people for thy friends; have for thy friends the best of
men.

  --The Dhammapada

A friend loveth at all times, and a brother is born for adversity.

  --The Book of Proverbs

What room can there be for friendship, or who can be a friend to anyone
whom he does not love for that one’s own sake?

  --Cicero

Make no friendship with an angry man that is given to anger, and with a
furious man thou shalt not go.

  --The Book of Proverbs

    What ill-starr’d rage
    Divides a friendship long confirm’d by age?

    --Pope

Friends should be weighed, not told; who boasts to have won a multitude
of friends has never had one.

  --Coleridge

Friendship should be surrounded with ceremonies and respects, and not
crushed into corners. Friendship requires more time than poor busy men
can usually command.

  --Emerson

Friendship is like rivers, and the strand of seas, and the air, common
to all the world; but tyrants, and evil customs, wars, and want of
love, have made them proper and peculiar.

  --Jeremy Taylor

I hate where I looked for a manly furtherance, or at least a manly
resistance, to find a mush of concession. Better be a nettle in the
side of your friend than his echo.

  --Emerson

He who is a friend to everybody is nobody’s friend.

  --Spanish Proverb

    For tho’ the faults were thick as dust
    Vacant chambers, I could trust
    Your kindness.

    --Tennyson

A friend is he who sets his heart upon us, is happy with us, and
delights in us, does for us what we want, is willing and fully engaged
to do all he can for us, on whom we can rely in all cases.

  --Channing

Friendship is Love, without either flowers or veil.

  --J. C. and A. W. Hare

We call friendship the love of the Dark Ages.

  --Mme. de Stael

Pure friendship is what none can attain to the taste of save those who
are well-born.

  --La Bruyère

Friendship is a plant of slow growth, and must undergo and withstand
the shocks of adversity, before it is entitled to the appellation.

  --Washington

I love a friendship that flatters itself in the sharpness and vigor of
its communications.

  --Montaigne

No word is oftener on the lips of man than Friendship, and indeed no
thought is more familiar to their aspirations.

  --Henry D. Thoreau

Friendships are the purer and the more ardent, the nearer they come to
the presence of God, the Sun not only of righteousness but of love.

  --Landor

A friend may well be reckoned the masterpiece of nature.

  --Emerson

He will find himself in a great mistake who either seeks a friend in a
palace, or tries him at a feast.

  --Seneca

    Friendship--_our_ friendship--is like the beautiful shadows of evening,
    Spreading and growing till life and its light pass away.

    --Michael Vitkovics

That friendship will not continue to the end that is begun for an end.

  --Francis Quarles

Let friendship creep gently to a height; if it rush to it, it may soon
run itself out of breath.

  --Thomas Fuller

Friendship must not surmise or provide for infirmity. It treats its
object as a god, that it may deify both.

  --Emerson

    True friendship’s laws are by this rule express’d:
    Welcome the coming, speed the parting guest.

    --Homer (Pope’s Tr.)

Real friendship is a slow grower and never thrives unless engrafted
upon a stock of known and reciprocal merit.

  --Lord Chesterfield

Friendship builds itself up: it is a sentiment which walks
circumspectly.

  --Henry Murger

The essence of friendship is entireness, a total magnanimity and trust.

  --Emerson

    You will forgive me, I hope, for the sake of the friendship between us,
    Which is too true and too sacred to be so easily broken.

    --Longfellow

    Friendship, like love, is but a name,
    Unless to one you stint the flame.

    --John Gay

I do not wish to see my friends as I run; I want to enjoy them in long
draughts.

  --Comte de Bussy Rabutin

For affection, or the faintest imitation of it, a man should be obliged
to his very dog. But for the gross assistance of patronage or purse,
let him pause before accepting them from anyone.

  --Carlyle

Thine own friend, and thy father’s friend, forsake not.

  --The Book of Proverbs

The only good friends are old friends.

  --Voltaire

Whosoever formeth an intimacy with the enemies of his friends, does so
to injure the latter. O wise man! wash your hands of that friend who
associates with your enemies.

  --Saadi

To thrust aside a virtuous friend, I consider as bad as to thrust away
one’s own life, which one loves best.

  --Sophocles

Friendship is one soul in two bodies.

  --Pythagoras

He removes the greatest ornament of friendship who takes away from it
respect.

  --Cicero

Friendship is no respecter of sex; and perhaps it is more rare between
the sexes, than between two of the same sex.

  --Henry D. Thoreau

The loss of a friend is like that of a limb; time may heal the anguish
of the wound, but the loss cannot be repaired.

  --Southey

    As in the fire the yellow gold is tried,
    So friendship’s faith can but be proved in time
    Of dark adversity.

    --Ovid

I always avoid contention, but if it shall happen, I had rather lose my
money than my friend.

  --Erasmus

There are three faithful friends--an old wife, an old dog and ready
money.

  --Franklin

No discovery of defect in a character essentially good can so dampen
friendship as the suspicion that something is kept back.

  --Channing

Thou learnest no secret until thou knowest friendship, since to the
unsound no heavenly knowledge enters.

  --Hafiz

The dearest thing in nature is not comparable to the dearest thing of
friendship.

  --Jeremy Taylor

There can never be deep peace between two spirits, never mutual
respect, until, in their dialogue, each stands for the whole world.

  --Emerson

The Friend asks no return but that his Friend will religiously accept
and wear and not disgrace his apotheosis of him.

  --Henry D. Thoreau

Friendship new is neither strong or pure.

  --Young

    Friendship is constant in all other things
    Save in the office and affairs of love:
    Therefore, all hearts in love use their own tongues.

    --Shakespeare

A friendship that makes the least noise is often the most useful; for
which reason I should prefer a prudent friend to a zealous one.

  --Addison

A faithful friend is a true image of the Deity.

  --Napoleon

    O friend! O best of friends! Thy absence more
    Than the impending night darkens the landscape o’er!

    --Longfellow

The place where two friends first met is sacred to them all through
their friendship, all the more sacred as their friendship deepens and
grows old.

  --Phillips Brooks

Stay is a charming word in a friend’s vocabulary.

  --A. Bronson Alcott

We have a great deal more kindness than is ever spoken. Maugre all the
selfishness that chills like east-winds the world, the whole human
family is bathed with an element of love like a fine ether.

  --Emerson

A man that hath friends must shew himself friendly.

  --The Book of Proverbs

Friendship is the marriage of the soul.

  --Voltaire

Some friendships are made by nature, some by contract, some by interest
and some by souls.

  --Jeremy Taylor

Friendship consists properly in mutual offices, and a generous strife
in alternate acts of kindness.

  --Robert South

    The friends thou hast, and their adoption tried,
    Grapple them to thy soul with hoops of steel.

    --Shakespeare

    Heaven gives us friends to bless the present scene;
    Resumes them, to prepare us for the next.

    --Young

Old friends are best. King James used to call for his old shoes; they
were easiest to his feet.

  --John Selden

True friends are the whole world to one another; and he that is a
friend to himself is also a friend to mankind.

  --Seneca

There is no man so friendless but what he can find a friend sincere
enough to tell him disagreeable truths.

  --Bulwer-Lytton

Friendship is too pure a pleasure for a mind cankered with ambition, or
the lust of power and grandeur.

  --Junius

The firmest friendships have been formed in mutual adversity as iron is
most strongly united by the fiercest flame.

  --Colton

Between friends, frequent reproofs make the friendship distant.

  --Confucius

We must accept or refuse one another as we are. I could tame a hyena
more easily than my Friend. He is a material which no tool of mine will
work.

  --Henry D. Thoreau

A true and noble friendship shrinks not at the greatest of trials.

  --Jeremy Taylor

Friendship hath the skill and observation of the best physician, the
diligence and vigilance of the best nurse, and the tenderness and
patience of the best mother.

  --The Earl of Clarendon

Friendship is the only thing in the world concerning the usefulness of
which all the world is agreed.

  --Cicero

Friendship is a disinterested commerce between equals.

  --Goldsmith

    O friendship, flavor of flowers! O lively sprite of life!
    O sacred bond of blissful peace, the stalworth staunch of strife!

    --Nicholas Grimald

The man who has no enemies deserves to have no friends.

  --R. C. MacDonald

He that will lose his friend for a jest, deserves to die a beggar by
the bargain.

  --Thomas Fuller

No friendship is so cordial or so delicious as that of girl for girl;
no hatred so intense and immovable as that of woman for woman.

  --Landor

Faith and friendship are seldom truly tried, but in extremes.

  --Owen Felltham

To hear complaints with patience, even when complaints are vain, is one
of the duties of friendship.

  --Dr. Johnson

I can never think of promoting my convenience at the expense of a
friend’s interest and inclination.

  --George Washington

We lose some friends for whose loss we regret more than we grieve; and
others whose departure causes us grief, but not regret.

  --La Rochefoucauld

Friendship is a word the very sight of which in print makes the heart
warm.

  --Augustine Birrel

You, who forget your own friends, meanly to follow after those of a
higher degree, are a snob.

  --Thackeray

Friendship is a plant that loves the sun, thrives ill under clouds.

  --A. Bronson Alcott

To have the same desires and the same aversions is assuredly a firm
bond of friendship.

  --Sallust

Nothing makes the earth seem so spacious as to have friends at a
distance; they make the latitudes and longitudes.

  --Henry D. Thoreau

    Friendship, peculiar boon of heaven,
      The noble mind’s delight and pride,
    To men and angels only given,
      To all the lower world denied!

    --Samuel Johnson

Friendship heightens all our affections. We receive all the ardor of
our friends in addition to our own. The communication of minds gives to
each the fervor of each.

  --Channing

Friendship! Sir, there can be no such thing without an equality!

  --Farquhar

Friendship admits of difference of character, as love does that of sex.

  --Joseph Roux

Something like home, that is not home, is to be desired; it is to be
found in the house of a friend.

  --Sir William Temple

The feeling of friendship is like that of being comfortably filled with
roast beef; love, like being enlivened with champagne.

  --Dr. Johnson

Take the advice of a faithful friend, and submit thy inventions to his
censure.

  --Thomas Fuller

When men are friends, there is no need of justice; but when they are
just, they still need friendship.

  --Aristotle

There are no rules for friendship. It must be left to itself; we cannot
force it any more than love.

  --William Hazlitt

In friendship, your heart is like a bell struck every time your friend
is in trouble.

  --H. W. Beecher

Ceremony and great professing renders friendship as much suspected as
it does religion.

  --Wycherley

The most familiar and intimate habitudes, connections, friendships,
require a degree of good-breeding both to preserve and cement them.

  --Lord Chesterfield

Sincerity, truth, faithfulness, come into the very essence of
friendship.

  --Channing

The services which cement friendship are _reciprocal_ services. A
feeling of dependence is scarcely compatible with friendship.

  --William Smith

It is better to break off a thousand friendships than to endure the
sight of a single enemy.

  --Saadi

Nature and religion are the bands of friendship, excellency and
usefulness are its great endearments.

  --Jeremy Taylor




      *      *      *      *      *      *




Transcriber’s note:

Obvious printer errors corrected silently.

Inconsistent spelling and hyphenation are as in the original.



***END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE BOOK OF FRIENDSHIP***


******* This file should be named 57409-0.txt or 57409-0.zip *******


This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
http://www.gutenberg.org/dirs/5/7/4/0/57409


Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United
States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for the eBooks, unless you receive
specific permission. If you do not charge anything for copies of this
eBook, complying with the rules is very easy. You may use this eBook
for nearly any purpose such as creation of derivative works, reports,
performances and research. They may be modified and printed and given
away--you may do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks
not protected by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the
trademark license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country outside the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you'll have to check the laws of the country where you
  are located before using this ebook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and The
Project Gutenberg Trademark LLC, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark. Contact the Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org 

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary 
Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is in Fairbanks, Alaska, with the
mailing address: PO Box 750175, Fairbanks, AK 99775, but its
volunteers and employees are scattered throughout numerous
locations. Its business office is located at 809 North 1500 West, Salt
Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up to
date contact information can be found at the Foundation's web site and
official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

For additional contact information:

    Dr. Gregory B. Newby
    Chief Executive and Director
    gbnewby@pglaf.org

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works.

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.

